in this short demo I'm going to show how
I organize my jobs and data in Lightroom
and I think this is a fairly efficient
method though there are other methods
that I'm also considering doing I've
opened like right up here with all of
the photographs in the catalog selected
but when I shoot a specific job for a
client what I do is I organize them on
the hard drive by job ID so if I go into
my folder area in Lightroom first thing
I'll draw attention to is the number of
hard drives I'm just going to hide the
navigator window open so we can see that
a bit better and what we can see here is
that my folder area I have one two three
three or so hard drives which show the
c1 fact three four five which are grayed
out these are off line drives so these
contain data that are currently not
connected to the system but they are
drives that I can access at a later date
if I plug them in via USB my main
cataloguing drives are these six that
are here which are always online because
they're installed in the mac pro tower
itself and I've currently got about four
well 1 2 3 4 5 1 to 1.5 terabyte drives
and 1 2 terabyte drive installed in the
system so that's a lot of capacity now
what I do is I use a technique which I
read about some while ago in the digital
asset management book which was designed
really for CD ROMs where data was backed
up onto CD ROMs in one gigabyte or the
say five gigabytes units what I do is
all of all of the subdirectories I keep
my images in are stored in 500 gigabyte
units the reason I've done this is
because I've got a lot of hard drives
sure 500 gigabytes in size and I can
make physical backups on to those drives
of any one top level folder into those
things so i can manage secondary storage
in 500 gigabyte chunks or buckets so
what I do is once I start operating in a
new year if we look down here it says
images 2010 one I create a bucket in
this case I call to images 2010 stroke
one which is going to be my first 500
gigabyte in a bucket of images this year
that is broken down into subfolders
which hold jobs personal and worked
versions of files these will all add up
to that total of five hundred gigabytes
in unit but within each of these i use a
folder labeling system that allowed
there was me to find things by date so
let's go back to a year trying to find a
year where Oscar email go down here 2008
it was a nice year cuz I did lots of
work in my jobs so it's a good one too
sore to show the organization going on
here now 2008 one was the first bucket i
started in 2008 and i think i ended up
with several of those that are scattered
across different drives doesn't really
matter that those drives don't hold each
one in date order because the searching
capabilities of lightroom you know i
could find anything really quickly just
by using the search capabilities I don't
really need to go bit by bit so if I
click on that I can see all of the 8400
images or so I'm just going to take the
metadata search away four thousand eight
thousand four hundred images also that
were in that unit of the year some of
these are not going to be things I shot
that year that not in that period but
will be things that I've been working on
from before and what you can see here is
that I've got folders under my jobs area
which are sorted by the job number that
each job had so for example see this one
here little venice here was a shoot for
city west housing and the job number was
incurred 08 02 05 it's reversed date
orders while he's my job number and if
two jobs are started on the same day i
had a number one in between and then i
give it a title like that so i can find
things quite quickly and this is where
my raw files are stored on the hard
drive and in this case there were one
two three four five separate shoots
under that job number and i can pick out
the raw files from any one of those
things in here quite quite easily so
that's how I organize my roars now
within that
within that I can use all the editing
capabilities of stacking and so forth
that to do an initial edit if I pick the
flag ones here I can find the the images
i selected perhaps from that shoot but i
don't do my most of my editing work my
workflow doesn't really happen mostly
inside these folders which are the hard
drive folders where i'm storing the raws
this is really just about categorizing
the raw files and perhaps my picks for
that particular job what I do instead is
I use collections within Lightroom for
doing all of the work flow stuff so if I
hide the folders away what I'll have is
a parallel structure in collections that
relate strictly to the things that I'm
doing now I actually number subsections
of my collection hierarchy so that I can
control the ordering of these things
without having to have alphabetical
order to control the order of these
these titles so that's how I go about
doing these and I have a number of
categories of collection which are not
date specific they are to do with my
personal work stock things submissions
competitions I've entered so for example
competitions it tells you the ones i've
i've entered in my select to those
competitions so what i can do is
categorize all of my work by the second
level of completely arbitrary
organization that doesn't depend on the
folders where I've stored my initial
images so if i come down to this area
here we'll see that I've got a parallel
date driven structure they use for jobs
and date related things and if I come
into here I'll be able to find a little
venice with the same job number under
the same job now what what effectively
I've done here is I've created a
separate series of collections of images
that are completely arbitrary what I do
is I use it in it I use it to implement
of a workflow so I have collections
which tell me the specific sets of the
workflow images after my initial
selection in the folder I create perhaps
an initial selection from the customers
selector my select some of these
collections are down here they just
initial selection particular shoots I
liked but ultimately I'll end up with
workflow section in here which lists the
stages I need to go to to finish off
particular images so let's let's have a
look at what we've got in here I've got
one called final selection of post
Photoshop adjust final check just
spotting comp one for something that has
to be comped out of separate images and
I can use each of these things as stages
to check off I've done all my work and
then finally I've got a distribution of
images i sent to the client the final
selection shows the ones that I've still
got to work on with Photoshop to finish
them off the final one for dust spotting
is empty because as I finish off bits of
work for example I make sure each image
is spotted they'll be removed from this
collection and then there's one here
that I was comping together that I think
I didn't finally use so what I think I'm
hopefully showing is that the light
rooms capability for collections allows
you to implement not only finding and
organizing your folders but also a way
of implementing a workflow specific to
you related to a specific job I use this
distrib directory name or collection
name I should call it as a quick way of
really identifying which images finally
got sent out on the CD to the client so
if anyone ever calls me up and says I
would like to have another CD I can
simply go through to the distrib folder
connected to that jobs collection and
just re-export that whole lot onto a CD
using the export dialog in Lightroom so
if you haven't seen it there's an export
dialog here and a CD setting that can be
preset with all of my requirements for
outputting to a CD so that endeth the
lesson